#### Abstraction ####
Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) are an instance of hybrid systems that combine physical components governed by time-driven dynamics and computer-based components with event-driven dynamics. We will outline the differences between these two types of systems from a modeling, control, and optimization standpoint and discuss examples of CPS and related technical challenges. We will also try to place CPS-related problems in a unifying multi-agent network system framework. 
#####################

Cyber-physical systems Motivations

What is a cyber-physcial system?

Cyber - Internett sending packages
Physical - is the number of devices that have different applications.
IOT - is the hybrid-system.

A smart city consists of four processes:

Data collection - sensor network
Information processing - Big Data
Decision Making - 
control and optimization - 


there are also constraints on the outside of these processes such as safety, security, privacy, etc.

Cyer block contains a model such that it contains Data collection and information processing.
Since we are making decision of physical components, we have to understand the physics. We need to understand the time restraints.

This is called a whole system of hybrid systems. it switches between cyber and physical since they are bidirectional.

Action and information is mandatory to create a good decision of what to do and to have a whole.


Modeling Time-driven vs Event-driven

state space are run by dynamics. You can't talk about the physical interpretations of the states.

Events is a piece wise trajectory. It is important the order of the events.

Everything is dependent of the clock on time-driven event. (time driven). synchrounous events.

The switch is king by the way the event-state(event-driven). asynchronous event

Many systems are naturally discrete event systems(DES)(Internett). all state trainsitions are event driven.

Most of the rest are Hybrid systems(HS), some state transitions are event-driven.

Many systems are distributed, components interact asynchronous(through events).

Stochastic is the reaction to random events, since these need to be handle.

Synchronous vs. asynchronous behavior

Industinguishable events and increasing time granularity.

In cyber physical systems it is important to hook up the different devices and that is needed by a multi-agent framework.

Parametric optimization.

Ideas: I am working with models for concurrency based on HDAs an ST-structures, derived from configuration structures.
		First I need to understand where in the big picture this falls. Secondly, I need to see how the development of ST
		and HDA fall in the picture of sculptures and how we can further find the application of sculptures.

Sense: Where I believe this fits in the bigger picture is into the complex between the time-driven and event-driven issues.
		As mentioned under the lecture of Christos G. Cassandras he emphesized the approach of time-driven over event-driven and
		that if the perspective would change to more of an event perspective, the gain would be great.(maybe, need further investigation).

		Most of the early research has focused on the state-based/time-based approach where a clock is the king. It is a set time where
		certain things may happen and must happen. This can cause large time tickets where the system might be highly ineffective by activating
		when the system is mostly inactive.

		A newer approach is that of event-based allowing the trigger/switch to be king. It is then a certain action that happens to trigger a specific
		event. This approach seems more feasible and better for long time IOT devices to stay alive.

Focus: I should focus on the Distributed CPS as it is a project in Oslo working on this specifically. What is a distributed CPS? Is it the focus
		on the distributed elements of the CPS.

		As described above, Cyber is the internet communication with packages and all such.
		Physical is the actual devices where the IOT comes into focus.

Idea 2: Potential application of the models of concurrency would be best applicable in Distributed CPS. Figure out how.





